[WIP] 'What is quantum computing?' webpage (#614)
PennyLaneAI/qml: whatisqc.rst

> .. role:: html(raw)

Reviewer: Can we update the file name to be `what-is-quantum-computing.rst` to align the URL name with the requirements [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12TTsdBTTBoJ9aYi2NgMnDct_5Sxa7k-K2Xo7fbUAjqY/edit)

Author: @ashishks0522 — yep, will sort it out.

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

What Is Quantum Computing?
=================================

.. meta::
   :property="og:description": Quantum computing is a research area that explores what quantum computers can do and how to make them do it.
   :property="og:image": https://pennylane.ai/qml/_static/whatisqml/gpu_to_qpu.png

> Quantum computing is a research area that explores **what quantum computers can do and how to make them do it**. It is a highly interdisciplinary field of quantum science and technology, sitting at the meeting point of algorithm design, complexity theory, system architecture and hardware development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quantum computing is a research area that explores **what quantum computers can do and how to make them do it**. It is a highly interdisciplinary field of quantum science and technology, sitting at the meeting point of algorithm design, complexity theory, system architecture, and hardware development.
```

> Examples span the gamut from low-level hardware problems that engage a variety of phenomena in quantum mechanics, such as the implementation of physical schemes to control and stabilize quantum units of information, qubits, or the best way to synthesize a quantum circuit, to high-level problems like breaking classical and devising post-quantum approaches to encryption schemes, simulating quantum systems, or even training quantum neural networks.

Author: Split into two sentences instead.

Advantage and challenge of quantum computing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/whatisqml/gpu_to_qpu.png
    :align: right
    :width: 45%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

Quantum computers **extend the set of physical laws** classical computers operate on by accessing quantum aspects of the physical world and—as a result—gain new ways to process information. For example, quantum computers have the ability to explore many possibilities at once, a phenomenon known as *superposition*.

Even though the original motivation for studying quantum computers was the efficient simulation of quantum systems, after a sequence of breakthroughs in algorithm research in the ‘90s demonstrated that quantum computers may be able to outperform their classical counterparts at specific tasks like searching lists, factoring numbers, and combinatorial optimization, research in this field began in earnest.

> The art and science of quantum computing lies in designing algorithms that can encode useful information into a computational model, modify it in specific ways and read out the result. But this is far from trivial, as the branches of a quantum algorithm cannot be observed simultaneously—they are collapsed into a single number by the process of measurement.

Author: Met you half-way, great change.

Quantum computing on near-term quantum devices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/whatisqml/quantum_devices_ai.png
    :align: left
    :width: 60%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

Real devices that can carry out useful quantum algorithms consist of **many interacting components** and they must be able to correct errors that arise, inevitably, from **device–environment interactions** as computations proceed. Architectures that support error correction are referred to as *fault-tolerant*.

> Perhaps the primary ambition of the field of quantum computing nowadays is to **develop a scalable, fault-tolerant device on which any and all quantum algorithms can be implemented**. Research in specialized fields like quantum machine learning and quantum chemistry is already underway, but existing quantum hardware is currently limited to devices that are either small, noisy, or non-universal—a computing paradigm known as **noisy intermediate-scale quantum, or NISQ**.

Author: Yeah, why not. Added a connector.

The bigger picture: quantum advantage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/whatisqml/trainable_circuit.png
    :align: right
    :width: 55%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

> Whether practical algorithmic speedups are possible in the NISQ regime remains an open problem, but some instances of quantum devices solving computational problems that would take classical computers an unfeasible amount of time have already been demonstrated. For example, [Borealis](https://www.xanadu.ai/products/borealis/), **Xanadu’s flagship 216-qubit photonic quantum computer**, was shown to be able to achieve this *******************************[quantum computational advantage](https://xanadu.ai/blog/beating-classical-computers-with-Borealis)*******************************, and has been made accessible to everyone on the [Xanadu Cloud](https://pennylane.xanadu.ai/).

Author: Absolutely no clue. 😂 Jet-lag + copy-pasting down the highway in the wrong direction. Will fix.

> Whether practical algorithmic speedups are possible in the NISQ regime remains an open problem, but some instances of quantum devices solving computational problems that would take classical computers an unfeasible amount of time have already been demonstrated. For example, [Borealis](https://www.xanadu.ai/products/borealis/), **Xanadu’s flagship 216-qubit photonic quantum computer**, was shown to be able to achieve this *******************************[quantum computational advantage](https://xanadu.ai/blog/beating-classical-computers-with-Borealis)*******************************, and has been made accessible to everyone on the [Xanadu Cloud](https://pennylane.xanadu.ai/).

Author: Fair play. :)

> Quantum advantage is not necessarily demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable, error-resilient photonic quantum computers** remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Author: Deciding to go in the 'uncountable noun' direction because it fits existing mats, let's change it to 'a' if it's wrong.

A general-purpose technology to solve real-world problems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Few technological advances hold a real potential to let us speed through entire stages of scientific development, but quantum computers are likely to be the cornerstone *general-purpose technology* of the 21st century that will **change the way we do research, protect our data, communicate, and understand the world around us**. Initial progress has already shown that—with further improvements to quantum hardware setups—quantum computing will become used widely and applied to an ever-growing variety of problems across the globe.

Author: It should be "widely used" or "used widely" or "a widely-used [noun]," sometimes. So I'll leave it for now (but change 'become' to 'be'.
Mdashes flow better for me, given the existing Xanadu web copy.

For example, quantum computers can be used to speedrun the development of new chemical compounds for medicine or agriculture, enable a perfectly secure exchange of private messages, optimize and enhance existing computational algorithms for image classification, traffic management, or product design, and for **thousands of other uses we haven’t thought of yet**.

PennyLane for quantum computing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> PennyLane is an **open-source cross-platform Python library** that supports a wide array of tasks in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Its capabilities for the differentiable programming of quantum computers have been designed to seamlessly integrate with classical machine learning libraries, quantum simulators and hardware, giving users the power to train quantum circuits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PennyLane is an **open-source cross-platform Python library** that supports a wide array of tasks in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Its capabilities for the differentiable programming of quantum computers have been designed to seamlessly integrate with classical machine learning libraries, quantum simulators, and hardware, giving users the power to train quantum circuits.
```

Author: Deciding against Oxford comma here because simulators and hardware are in the same category of things.

> To find out more, visit the [PennyLane Documentation](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/) or check out the gallery of hands-on :doc:`quantum machine learning demonstrations <demonstrations>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find out more, visit the [PennyLane Documentation](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/) or check out the gallery of hands-on :doc:`demonstrations <demonstrations>`.
```

Author: Duh, thanks. I thought I changed it. Need to start drinking coffee.

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

What Is Quantum Computing?
==========================

.. meta::

>    :property="og:description": Quantum computing is a research area that explores what quantum computers can do and how to make them do it.

Reviewer 3: The specific discussion took place in the glossary file, but when the dust settles and we have a nice clear and concise description there, would be good to propagate those changes here

Author: Updated

>    :property="og:image": https://pennylane.ai/qml/_static/whatisqc/quantumt_computer.svg

Reviewer 3: typo in the URL

> Quantum computing is a research area that explores **what quantum computers can do and how to make them do it**. It is a highly interdisciplinary field of quantum science and technology, sitting at the meeting point of algorithm design, complexity theory, system architecture, and hardware development.

Reviewer 3: ditto here for the change from glossary & description.

Author: Updated

> Examples span the gamut from low-level hardware problems that engage a variety of phenomena in quantum mechanics, such as the implementation of physical schemes to control and stabilize quantum units of information, qubits, or the best way to synthesize a quantum circuit. On the other hand, higher-level problems in quantum computing address the breaking of classical protocols and devising of post-quantum approaches to encryption schemes, simulating quantum systems, or even training quantum neural networks.

Reviewer 3: btw if the files have line-length limits (say 80 chars), it makes it easier to provide review/suggestion on individual lines rather than all at once :nerd_face:

> Examples span the gamut from low-level hardware problems that engage a variety of phenomena in quantum mechanics, such as the implementation of physical schemes to control and stabilize quantum units of information, qubits, or the best way to synthesize a quantum circuit. On the other hand, higher-level problems in quantum computing address the breaking of classical protocols and devising of post-quantum approaches to encryption schemes, simulating quantum systems, or even training quantum neural networks.

Reviewer 3: a nice improvement! :+1:

Advantage and challenge of quantum computing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. image:: /_static/whatisqc/quantum_computer.svg

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest we can leave in the magnifying glass as an easter egg nod to Xanadu's archticture, but remove the blatant logo in the data rack itself

Author: Will remove, thanks.

    :align: right
    :width: 42%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

> Quantum computers **extend the set of physical laws** classical computers operate on by accessing quantum aspects of the physical world and, as a result, gain new ways of processing information. For example, quantum computers have the ability to explore many possibilities at once, a phenomenon known as *superposition*.

Reviewer 3: this is a much better one-liner than the one used at the start of the first paragraph :100:. Would give a clearer answer if that's all you saw in search results

Reviewer 3: once the top-level description is updated, it will likely steal the thunder from this opener, so we'll have to adjust slightly here to compensate

Author: Updated with a mish-mash that I think looks fine.

> Even though the original motivation for studying quantum computers was the efficient simulation of quantum systems, a sequence of breakthroughs in algorithm research in the ‘90s demonstrated that quantum computers could **outperform their classical counterparts** at specific tasks like searching lists and factoring numbers. Subsequently, research in this field began in earnest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The original motivation for studying quantum computers was the efficient simulation of quantum systems. But a sequence of breakthroughs in algorithm research in the ‘90s demonstrated that quantum computers could also **outperform their classical counterparts** at specific tasks like searching lists and factoring numbers. Subsequently, research in this field began in earnest.
```
this way makes it seem more "additive" in the list of things QCs can do

> The art and science of quantum computing lies in the design of algorithms that can encode useful information into a computational model, modify it in specific ways and read out the result. But this is far from trivial, as the branches of a quantum algorithm cannot be observed simultaneously—they are *collapsed* into a single number by the act of measuring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The art and science of quantum computing lies in the design of algorithms that can encode useful information into a computational model, modify it in specific ways, and read out the result. But this is far from trivial, as the branches of a quantum algorithm cannot be observed simultaneously—they are *collapsed* into a single number by the act of measuring.
```

Quantum computing on near-term quantum devices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. image:: /_static/whatisqc/NISQ_computing.svg

Reviewer 3: Nice image, like the inclusion of the confetti. Easter egg X logo is subtle enough that it doesn't make it feel like advertising :+1:

Reviewer 3: Would be good to modify image/text slightly so that this one single line isn't wrapping around
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7213358/208161546-ae0b2c9c-c5d6-4e7c-9015-5f928aacf6e2.png)

Author: We can't modify the size of the image, but I can attempt to shorten the text, although this wrapping is exclusively subject to the interaction of your screen width and font size... it will look different on different screens.

Reviewer 3: I don't know what others see, but I hope I'm not just a strange outlier. I see spill-over for quite a range of different browser window sizes (using both firefox & chrome on ubuntu). I would expect others are likely to encounter something similar, so would be good to trim. 

Alternatively, we can also get the frontend devs to put in some divs/borders for us which prevent this spilling over. So what I'd recommend is that we keep an eye out for this in the final implementation, and we adjust there as needed (we don't need to over-optimize in this PR, but let's not forget this point later :point_right: :brain:)

Author: Definitely, let's see what it looks like at the end! We can add/remove words, just can't touch the images.

Reviewer 4: One option for the devs is to add padding above and below the image :)

    :align: left
    :width: 42%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

> Perhaps the primary ambition of the field of quantum computing nowadays is to develop a **scalable, fault-tolerant device** on which any and all quantum algorithms can be implemented. Research in specialized fields like quantum machine learning and quantum chemistry is already underway, but existing quantum hardware is currently limited to devices that are either small, noisy, or non-universal—a computing paradigm known as noisy intermediate-scale quantum, or **NISQ**.

Reviewer 3: reads nicely, like the change :)

> On top of that, real devices that can carry out useful quantum algorithms consist of **many interacting components** and they must be able to correct errors that inevitably arise from **device–environment interactions**. Architectures that support error correction are referred to as *fault-tolerant*.

Reviewer 3: It's slightly more subtle than that. One could have a device with error correction, but since the error correction itself could be subject to errors, things could still fall apart overall. Fault tolerance refers to being below (above?) the threshold where you can correct errors faster than they occur.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the suggestion. In my mind, it reads a bit too verbose. I wonder if we can simplify while still hitting the key points? e.g., something like

```suggestion
On top of that, real devices that can carry out useful quantum algorithms consist of **many interacting components** , which must be able to correct errors that inevitably arise from **device–environment interactions**. Architectures where errors can be corrected faster than they occur are referred to as *fault-tolerant*.
```

The bigger picture: quantum advantage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. image:: /_static/whatisqc/Borealis_quantum_advantage.svg

Reviewer 3: See below for more thoughts on this section, but I would remove "Borealis" and the X logo from this image were we to use it

    :align: right
    :width: 63%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

Whether practical algorithmic speedups are possible in the NISQ regime remains an open problem, but some instances of quantum devices solving computational problems that would take classical computers an unfeasible amount of time have already been demonstrated. For example, `Borealis <https://www.xanadu.ai/products/borealis/>`_, **Xanadu’s flagship 216-qubit photonic quantum computer**, was shown to be able to achieve `quantum computational advantage <https://xanadu.ai/blog/beating-classical-computers-with-Borealis>`_, and was the first of its kind to been made accessible to everyone on `Xanadu Cloud <https://pennylane.xanadu.ai/>`_.

> Quantum computational advantage does not necessarily need to be demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable and error-resilient** photonic quantum computers remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Reviewer 3: Nice!

> Quantum computational advantage does not necessarily need to be demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable and error-resilient** photonic quantum computers remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Reviewer 3: just one small tweak/reordering suggested:
"... but some instances have already been demonstrated of quantum devices solving computational problems that would take classical computers an unfeasible amount of time."

> Quantum computational advantage does not necessarily need to be demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable and error-resilient** photonic quantum computers remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Reviewer 3: Could also do a bold highlight in first paragraph? Any proposals? Maybe "quantum computational advantage is already a reality" could be good?

> Quantum computational advantage does not necessarily need to be demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable and error-resilient** photonic quantum computers remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Author: That all sounds great, thank you!

> Quantum computational advantage does not necessarily need to be demonstrated on problems that are thought of as useful or practical, but it shows a clear sign toward the bright future of quantum computing. **Scalable and error-resilient** photonic quantum computers remain Xanadu’s central goal in the trek toward universal, fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Reviewer 3: you mean the dilution fridge? It's fine. There are also some other abstract "quantum computer" images there so I think its more balanced

A general-purpose technology to solve real-world problems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Few technological advances hold a real potential to let us speed through entire stages of scientific development, but quantum computers are likely to be the cornerstone *general-purpose technology* of the 21st century that will **change the way we do research, protect our data, communicate, and understand the world around us**. Initial progress has already shown that—with further improvements to quantum hardware setups—quantum computing will be used widely and applied to an ever-growing variety of problems across the globe.

Reviewer 3: I would steer away from declaring quantum computing as a general-purpose technology. A number of people would argue that we should not see QCs this way, since classical computers are already fairly strong at many things. (I've heard some argue convincingly that—asymptotic worst-case behaviours aside—there are few clear *practical* cases where a quantum computer obviously does better than our classical ones)

I wouldn't say we have to completely change this section (second paragraph is solid), but I would recommend refocusing the emphasis to be around the *variety* of different applications, rather than being about a *general-purpose* technology.

Reviewer 3: :100:

> .. figure:: /_static/whatisqc/QC_applications.svg

Reviewer 3: Neat!

    :align: center
    :width: 63%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

> For example, quantum computers can be used to speedrun the development of new chemical compounds for medicine or agriculture, enable a perfectly secure exchange of private messages, optimize and enhance existing computational algorithms for image classification, traffic management, or product design, and for **thousands of other uses we haven’t thought of yet**.

Reviewer 3: nice sneaking in speedrun lol

> For example, quantum computers can be used to speedrun the development of new chemical compounds for medicine or agriculture, enable a perfectly secure exchange of private messages, optimize and enhance existing computational algorithms for image classification, traffic management, or product design, and for **thousands of other uses we haven’t thought of yet**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, quantum computers could eventually be used to speedrun the development of new chemical compounds for medicine or agriculture, enable a perfectly secure exchange of private messages, optimize and enhance existing computational algorithms for image classification, traffic management, or product design, and for **thousands of other uses we haven’t thought of yet**.
```

Reviewer 3: > thousands of other uses we haven’t thought of yet
Nice, there's a bit of a call-to-action in this :ok_hand:

PennyLane for quantum computing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PennyLane is an **open-source cross-platform Python library** that supports a wide array of tasks in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Its capabilities for the differentiable programming of quantum computers have been designed to seamlessly integrate with classical machine learning libraries, quantum simulators and hardware, giving users the power to train quantum circuits.

To find out more, visit the `PennyLane Documentation <https://pennylane.readthedocs.io>`_ or check out the gallery of hands-on :doc:`demonstrations <demonstrations>`.

> .. figure:: /_static/whatisqc/PennyLane_applications.svg

Reviewer 3: Since this image is used elsewhere, should we put it in a single shared location rather than duplicating in different subfolders?

Author: Yes, ideally. :) I'll point it out to Ana once it's set up.
